
Readme

speedy.c

sudo ./speedy [-d,--debug] [-f path-to-radio-device-file]

defaults are no debug, /dev/rig.   if debug, will not daemonize

To compile:
gcc -Wall -Wextra -o speedy speedy.c

Proof of concept -- Implementing macropad CAT functions for a few things that for which I want buttons and knobs for quick adjustment,
but which the radio only offers by digging through menus and a touchscreen.   Namely, keyer on/off; breakin on/off; keyer speed.

speedy.c is a background daemon that communicates with an FTDX10 radio over a usb serial port (e.g., /dev/rig linked to /dev/ttyUSB0) to read and control a numeric "speed" value using the rotary encoder knob on a macropad.  The type of radio can be adjusted just by updating the CAT codes in the #defines.  
CAT codes are just strings, documented in the advanced manual.

The program also assumes a "nullbits SCRAMBLE" macropad that has been programmed with QMK firmware to issue the desired codes.  Name of the device can also be changed in the code #DEFINEs.

This updated version of this program also listens for other keypresses from the macropad, so no need to deal with keybindings, xmodmap, etc.  Depending
on your needs, you may not even need this program.  If what you need are things implemented as stateless commands then you could do everything with
keyboard bindings instead.   You just need to look at your manual for the CAT command definitions.

The reason for implementing this daemon in the first place was that there is no CAT command 
for incrementing or decrementing keyer speed directly.  The current speed needs to be retrieved, incremented, 
saved for later changes (that makes it stateful) and written back.
Otherwise all of the functionality here could have been implemented with simple key bindings.



Dependencies
    Assumes FTDX10 cat commands (see FTDX10 CAT manual for details)
    No dependency on hamlib or flrig etc (although this could probably be implemented with the hamlib api)

Features

    Communicates with radio at usb serial device at 38400 baud.
    Listens to a input event device (macropad)
    Debounces keypresses to avoid duplicate triggers.
    Queries and stores the initial speed value at startup.
    Runs as a background daemon unless invoked with debugging option
    Rotary encoder support -- knob clicks are just the same as button clicks
    Can be compiled with dynamic input device detection if needed
    Debug commandline option: runs in the foreground instead of as a daemon and prints debugging info
    Exits if input device goes missing (unplugged)

Key functions

    breakin on/off
    keyer on/off
    speed up/down (on knob rotation)
    fetch radio speed (on knob click)




To stop it:

sudo killall -9 speedy
